README.md, before:

# Data Engineering Takehome Exam

This Github repo is my submission for the Statistics Canada Data Science Fellowship Program's Takehome Exam. I chose the Data Engineering stream, and my solutions to the individual tasks are entirely contained here. This readme contains instructions on how to run the code for each task, as well as any required documentation.

## Dependencies

I've included a `requirements.txt` that you can use to install required Python dependencies. I'll be using Python 3.10.8 for this assignment.

## Installation

The following installation instructions are intended for use on macOS 12.5.1, but should be adaptable to other versions / operating systems. It is assumed that you have Python and pip already installed.

Run the following in your console in the root of this repository:

```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Usage

### Task 1
```
python3.10 download_data.py
```
You should see console output as the data for each month (January - November of 2022) downloads and extracts to your hard drive.

### Task 2

```
python3.10 create_mapping.py
```

You should see console output as the mapping for each variable of interest for each month of the downloaded data is created and saved to disk.

#### Worth Noting

- There was a typo in one of the column names ("Start / Fin" instead of "End / Fin") for January - April. This doesn't have any effect on this or any other tasks, though.
- I noticed that later tasks required additional variables to be mapped, so I added these later and left comments in the file.
- I noticed that several variable names had leading and/or trailing whitespace that was affecting my work in later tasks, so I stripped these out as I can't see any reason to keep it.

## Task Documentation

TBD

Commit message:

add commentary to readme re Task 3

README.md, after:

# Data Engineering Takehome Exam

This Github repo is my submission for the Statistics Canada Data Science Fellowship Program's Takehome Exam. I chose the Data Engineering stream, and my solutions to the individual tasks are entirely contained here. This readme contains instructions on how to run the code for each task, as well as any required documentation.

## Dependencies

I've included a `requirements.txt` that you can use to install required Python dependencies. I'll be using Python 3.10.8 for this assignment.

## Installation

The following installation instructions are intended for use on macOS 12.5.1, but should be adaptable to other versions / operating systems. It is assumed that you have Python and pip already installed.

Run the following in your console in the root of this repository:

```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Usage

### Task 1
```
python3.10 download_data.py
```
You should see console output as the data for each month (January - November of 2022) downloads and extracts to your hard drive.

### Task 2

```
python3.10 create_mapping.py
```

You should see console output as the mapping for each variable of interest for each month of the downloaded data is created and saved to disk.

#### Worth Noting

- There was a typo in one of the column names ("Start / Fin" instead of "End / Fin") for January - April. This doesn't have any effect on this or any other tasks, though.
- I noticed that later tasks required additional variables to be mapped, so I added these later and left comments in the file.
- I noticed that several variable names had leading and/or trailing whitespace that was affecting my work in later tasks, so I stripped these out as I can't see any reason to keep it.

## Task Documentation

```
python3.10 apply_mapping_and_merge_data.py
```

You should see console output as individual datasets are mapped and then merged into a final output dataset.

### Worth Noting
- The task asks for data to be output in a certain schema with a certain specification. Upon looking at later tasks, I realized that this requested schema / specification would NOT be enough to complete said tasks. I took the intitiative to modify the output of this task so that future tasks wouldn't need to redo some of the work in this task. I'm unsure if this was a mistake in the assignment itself, or to check whether we are able to assess business requirements and adjust accordingly. I'm assuming it's the latter.
